# Exercise 3
## Creating small tools


1) Read [the man page for the UNIX command tee](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/tee.1.html).  
And [the Wikipedia page about it](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tee_(command)).

2) Write an implementation of `tee` that takes the same command-line
arguments (short form only, or for optional extra fun, both long and
short form).  Implementing the `-i` option is optional.

This is meant as an exercise in efficient C development, which includes:

* Problem decomposition: what pieces do I need?

* Solution location: mostly Google->stackoverflow.

* Assimilation: bringing in the pieces and testing them.

* Integration: putting the pieces together. 

For this particular problem, we could skip just find a solution.  But let's take the opportunity to practice.

3) Reflect: what worked, what slowed you down?  What would you do
differently next time?

* I jumped a little into the deep end on stackoverflow and tried to edit a STDIN->STDOUT thing with char[] buffers to write to a file. Something went wrong with end condition detection or buffer flushing for file output (STDOUT was completely fine), and debugging was unsuccessful. I went back to tutorialspoint.com and found something that almost worked, then edited it to split the streams. 

4) Compare your solution to [this professional implementation](https://opensource.apple.com/source/shell_cmds/shell_cmds-170/tee/tee.c) or [this one](http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=coreutils.git;a=blob;f=src/tee.c;h=5f04bfc86243911be2fb22c7c28447ae6fb0f993;hb=75aababed45d0120d44baa76c5107d0ceb71fc59).  What do you see in professional code that is not in your solution?

* Uhhhh. A lot of things. It looks like they included a lot more redundancy and checks. I bet if their program went wrong or produced a weird output it'd be much easier to debug.

5) Write comments in your code to answer the last two questions, then check it in to the repo.
