# Exercise 2
## Pointers


### The address space

1. Compile and run `aspace.c` in this directory.

2. Read the code.  You might want to [read about malloc here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_malloc.htm).

3. Based on the output, draw a sketch of the virtual address space (see page 80 of HFC).  Show the relative locations of the stack, heap, globals, constants, and code.

Stack: 0x7ff000000000 - 0x7fffffffffff

Heap: around 0x700000 (6 digits) - 0xfffffff (7 digits)

Globals: around 0x600000 - 0x6fffff

Constants: probably around 0x50000 - 0x5fffff?

Code/Read-Only: around 0x400000 - 0x4fffff



4. Add a second call to `malloc` and check whether the heap on your system grows up (toward larger addresses).

I think so? It went up from 6 to 7 digits.


5. Add a function that prints the address of a local variable, and check whether the stack grows down.  

It went from 0x7fff--- to 0x7ffd--- .

6. Choose a random number between 1 and 32, and allocate two chunks with that size.  
How much space is there between them?  Hint: Google knows how to subtract hexadecimal numbers.

Varying the size within constraints, I get -0x20, which is -32 in decimal.


### Stack allocated data

1.  Read `stack.c`, which should be in this directory.  What is it
intended to do?  What would the output be if the program worked as
expected? 

"It's supposed to create an array and fill it with 42sT."

2.  Compile it.  Do you get a warning?  What does it mean?

"warning: function returns address of local variable [-Wreturn-local-addr]". C is probably warning me that local variables are stored on the stack, and the stack changes pretty often, so returning one of them is going to be awful.

3.  Run it.  What happens?  You might get a segmentation fault, or you might get
some strange output.  Can you explain it?  You might find it
helpful to draw a stack diagram.

4.  Comment out the `print` statements in `foo()` and `bar()` and run
it again.  What happens now?

3 and 4: When any of the printf() statements are uncommented, I get 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 on new lines. bar has been executed on the array that foo made, probably because deallocation of memory doesn't happen automatically in C? 

Maybe the printf() within the scope of a function drags the array from somewhere else (the heap?) and plops it onto the stack, where it can be accessed by another function that initializes a local variable with no value, since the top of the stack doesn't change between function calls and functions allocate from the top of the stack?

When the printf() statements are commented out, I get arbitrary numbers. This may be because the array is never brought to the top of the stack via printf? I'm not 100% sure. I still get the same warning.

5.  Add comments to the code to explain these experiments and the results,
then check the code in to the repo.

Moral: Don't return pointers to stack allocated data!


### Write some code

Create a file named `adder.c` and write a program that allows the user to enter integers, one per line, until the user hits Control-D, which is the end-of-file (EOF) character.

It should convert the numbers from input strings to integers and store the integers in an array.  The program should produce appropriate error messages if the user enters something that exceeds the length of the input buffer, or can't be converted to an integer.  It should also produce an error message if the user enters more numbers than will fit in the array.

After the user enters Control-D, the program should add up the numbers in the array and print the result.  

Your program should be divided into at least two functions with well designed interfaces.

Optionally, the program should produce an error if the sum exceeds the largest integer that can be represented.

Hint: You will probably want to use two functions we haven't seen yet:

* strlen: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_strlen.htm)

* atoi: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_atoi.htm)

Before you use there functions, you need to `#include <string.h>`.
